Part 1:


Main purpose of the law
Is cross-border data transfer allowed?
Can the government demand access to data?
Is there a data localization requirement?

GDRP

Main purpose of the law is to protect citizen's data that is collected by private companies based in Europe. 

Cross-border data transfer is allowed but only to counries that are deemed to have high security in privacy laws, called adequate countries.

Government can demand access to data in certain scenarios, law enforcement etc. but is very strict about it.

Data has to stay within EU countries.


Cloud Act

It is not considered a privacy law, the main purpose is to give access to data collected by American companies to the government.

Cross-border data transfer is allowed.

Government can demaind to access the data and use it how they please.

Data does not have to stay within the US.



PIPL

Main purpose of the law is to protect citizen's data that is collected by private companies based in the China.

Cross-border data transfer is usually not allowed

Government can demaind to access the data and use it how they please.

Data does most usually have to stay within China especially data of Chinese citizens.



DPDP


Main purpose of the law is to protect citizen's data that is collected by private companies based in the India. This is a new law still being implemented and developed. Aimed to be similar to GDRP but has some key differences.

Cross-border data transfer is usually allowed.

Government can demaind to access the data and use it how they please as they have implemented key "loopholes" for the government.

Data does most usually have to stay within India especially data of Indian citizens.


Part 2.

1. Which of these laws provides the strongest protection for individuals? Why?
2. If a Finnish company uses a U.S.-based cloud provider with an EU data center, what legal risk might arise?
3. In which of these jurisdictions is data storage the most restricted? Explain briefly.
4. How does India’s approach differ from both the EU model and the Chinese model?


1. The strongest law for protection for individuals is GDRP as only law enforcement agencies related and in case of emergency data is allowed ot be accessed and also not used for financial and political profiting. The other 3 mentioned have less strict rules and governments can directly access the data and use it as they see fit. Additionally, it also give the individuals the right to access their data, right to delete it, right to correct it.

2. The US government for example could demand the data from the US company even if it is physically stored in an EU data center. This can easilu and it has already a conflict with GDPR that in turn says the data must be protected, but the CLOUD Act mentions that the US company must hand it over. The Finnish companies could think that their data is safe in the EU but it's actually not.

3. Similar to question 1, GDRP law restricts anyone besides law enforcement related services to access data, and when they do, only relevant and data that was requested is shared with the asking party. The other 3 mentioned, accessing the data from the government perspective is simple. Important to add the for the PIPL, Chinese govenment restricts data to be localised outside China, which in a way makes PIPL also very restrictive.

4. India's approach differs from the EU model in the sense that the government can monitor and access the data, it is less strict and the government has mroe expectations. It differs with the Chinese model by having more strict rules on accesing and using the data as they see fit, also has more transparent rules.