PART 3:

Is the original data gone?

It is not gone, we just edited the contents of all the files to have the sentence "YOUR FILES ARE ENCRYPTED. PAY 5 BTC." When we try to see whats in the bucket for file report.txt, we get the sentence we added.

Did we delete it?

We just edited the file, so overwritten the file. We enabled versioning so every time we edit files or make chnages Minio keeps the old files. So we didnt delete it.


Is the data really deleted?

It is not really deleted, we still have the older versions of the report.txt file.

What is a delete marker?

It is just a way to let us know what happened to the specific file, DEL as in deleted or PUT as in added or edited for example.

Why is versioning powerful against ransomware?

If data is encypted or edited or deleted, we can still have the old version of the data to restore.

When would versioning NOT protect you?

It could not protect from the files being stolen/copied to the attackers machine for example. We could recover the data but the attacker would still have a copy of our data and can use it in any way. Also if the attacker would have sudo access to Minio they could delete all data/versions.

### Reflection

Consider and anwser briefly to the following:


What happens if versioning is disabled?

 If versioning is off and someone overwrites a file the olde version would permanently get edited. So any chnages and deletion would be permanent.

What if attacker has admin rights?

As before, they could essentially do anything with our data, ncluding deletion.


Should old versions expire automatically?

I think how it is done currently is that the versions are kept for around 90 days. It makes sense as storage is expensive and keeping all version forever would be constly and of course useless if we have 10 version of a file for example. It would be enough to keep let's say 2 version only at all times.

Is versioning the same as backup? 

It is not as backup, if Minio server crashes, versions do not help us, they would also get destroyed or not accessible.